1. Introduction
Interest in different forms of housing is growing, driven by increasing housing costs in many of the world's cities and by society's changes generally, but especially by the lives of the younger generations. Some of these new forms are an acceleration or elaboration of old and basic forms of collective living, such as the Greek symposia or the medieval college, to the newest form: co-living spaces. Based mainly in the U.S. and focused on the very young, who are often for the first time away from their families, co-living spaces are much more than just a rental apartment and stand as a form of housing midway between the traditional rental apartment and sharing flats. In some co-living spaces, policies seem more restrictive than in sharing flats, almost controlling the demographic characteristics, but in most cases, there is hardly any admittance restriction. These buildings generally have smaller flats than those in sharing flats, though they have larger living rooms, highly equipped with audio-visual stations and support for video games, while non-dedicated parts of the buildings commonly offer fitness, socializing, and weekend activities facilitation rooms. This way of living has gained the interest of professional and real estate developers, as well as being seen as having sustainability potential. Interest is also evolving in the academic world, and several interesting and influential works have already been published. This article aims to describe the situation of co-living spaces in the European Union, reviewing the academic production on this subject and analyzing how they will have developed on the continent by examining the investment focus on this new form of housing, the costs and income for its users, how they invest in a solidarity and sustainable world, as well as the demography of the users in order to try to understand to what extent this is an intermediate form between rental and sharing apartments.

2. Historical Context of Co-Living
This chapter looks at how we got to the co-housing concept of today. It starts with a more extensive look at the traditional roots of co-housing, followed by the evolution of these intentions toward co-living spaces. Co-living for young professionals is a relatively recent idea, mostly in big Western cities. The main reason for this new trend is economic, followed by professional reasons. People’s salaries are not high enough, especially when we think about the high cost of living in these cities. Being young is a matter of proving themselves, and each day alone is an opportunity cost that they are not taking advantage of, regardless of the absence of a significant other. The shared economy also plays an important role in making this opportunity possible. The concept of sharing space for brief periods with people they did not know has gained legitimacy. A very similar modus operandi exists in all the co-living spaces that prioritize sharing and building community, as well as the idea of creating a domestic space that feels like home, with a well-furnished house, activities that increase the joy of a home, and connections. The chapter ends by presenting the main typology of co-living. As already mentioned, the historical roots of co-living—and also the meaning of this word—having friends living door to door, sharing both domestic and personal life, are a point in time idea from the 21st century, but the concept was born much earlier. It can be stated to be much older and to have different names and purposes, so co-living is a concept that can cross ages, cultures, and economies. In the modern era, the concept took root and evolved for economic necessities that first appeared in the eighties.

3. Defining Co-Living Spaces
Co-living and co-working are often confused. Indeed, both allow a certain flexibility since they are believed to be driven by the increasing demand of both young and older adults for greater flexibility and mobility, but they are two separate living and working models. Co-living is a residential concept offering flexibility where spaces are shared between residents and services, excluding the restriction of a long-term lease. This is an evolution of the traditional Western student housing. Co-working refers to the areas in co-living spaces where residents work. Residential co-living refers to residential models built by private entrepreneurs targeting specific customer segments, rather than collective housing or multi-generation. The models offered are numerous. Some entrepreneurs target families with children, while others seek to house young professionals, business travelers, or digital nomads. However, the vast majority of models currently being deployed are aimed at a customer segment that overlaps with that of student housing, but wishes to maintain the services provided in these traditional models. The centralization of all the services necessary to avoid pernicious, peripheral, and time-consuming household tasks is a unique characteristic of co-living.

4. Demographic Trends Among Young Professionals
Demographic changes have wide implications for business. Sharply increased mobility means that businesses will be competing harder to recruit the brightest employees. People born in the West in the 1980s are better educated than the generation before and are beginning their working lives with much better economic prospects than their parents. The recruitment of this generation can be seen as an international competition to which the main global cities are especially attuned. These cities all currently have populations of young adults in their twenties that are growing considerably faster than other age groups. This can be explained by a substantial inflow of young, often well-educated adults, benefiting from high-paying jobs in economic sectors that contribute significantly to the overall value creation. This trend of an urban renaissance, characterized by a demographic boost among young professionals working in high-growth sectors, has been taking place in certain urban districts across Europe. This has brought societies towards a range of demographic challenges, such as the rising cost of living and greater competition among inhabitants. A second demographic trend that is anticipated has been dubbed the rise and fall of people born in the 1990s, in reference to an assumption of an increase derived from demographic projections followed by a later decrease, while others reinvigorate European cities. The increasing numbers of those classified either as young professionals or, specifically, as young people in their mid-twenties add to the need for an increase in overall housing stock as well as the demand for other public services.

5. Economic Factors Driving Co-Living
The economics driving co-living are in some ways not much different from those behind co-working. The tech revolution has made it easy for industries that do not require heavy machinery to be freelance, not anchored to one particular place of work, and altogether more cozy in their attire. However, many people do require being anchored in one particular place, which has recently become a problem for those who weren't anchored anywhere and were often found sleeping under a palm tree. Suddenly, those chauffeurs, riders, and other casual laborers are needed in large cities, and wages are expected to rise as a result. What has also disappeared are the huge funds used to generate affordable housing. The U.K. had a particular problem with providing homes for rent as most of the existing stock was built and funded by the state, and attracting funds from the private sector was never likely to generate very affordable homes. In London, the individuals with potential answers seemed to be tourists and hoteliers, so they swept in to snap up every old house to offer to guests. The new homes currently being built are mainly for sale and are priced at whatever the market will bear. The situation is exacerbated by the relatively conservative lending requirements for residential mortgages, with the actual loan being closely linked to earnings, and unearned income not being very well regarded.

6. Social Dynamics in Co-Living Environments
Coliving environments have always been closely linked to their communal living component. It is believed that living together with others greatly increases the quality of life and the sense of belonging, and creates a sense of community that beautifully intertwines with everyday moments. In the current digital age, we treasure real human connections even more. The daily life led in coliving spaces stretches the borders from living to collaborating, and it acts as an extension of people’s second homes and social lives. When focused on the experience and personal and professional development of their residents, coliving spaces contribute to combating the isolating emotions and stressful conditions that groups of mere coworkers working side by side usually exhibit. Many social dynamics occur in such living spaces and, according to residents’ preferences, can lead to common meals, collective events, cross-routines, or common hobbies. The growth of these business models is promising, as many studies focused on understanding possible futures can prove. By attracting a variety of populations including international students, professionals, and remote workers alike, new roles rise, embodying concepts and future work trends. In less than ideal contexts, they may spark social phenomena that present ethical concerns; however, within a properly conceived framework, the economic, social, and urban benefits for everyone can be significant. That is a global trend that is also evident in every European country with an increasing number of coliving attitudes. Social structure distinctions are also evident by examining the main activities carried out in the coliving experience. Small-scale entrepreneurial and business initiatives appear important within these kinds of developments. Indeed, the coliving proposal also applies to workspaces, remaining self-enclosed yet coupled within the same development.

7. Impact of Urbanization on Co-Living
The world has seen a great shift from rural areas to urban living, and many countries are experiencing this transition. The process of urbanization has accelerated with a pronounced trend towards central urban cores of large cities, causing overheating of the real estate markets for companies and municipalities that deal with their real estate property. Together with the overheating of the real estate market, urbanization fosters housing stress by making the housing market more and more inaccessible. Urbanization in Europe moved to the next level and surpasses the physical limits of cities. In most European urban centers, high prices are causing a reduction in the size of the living space, leading to residential stress for the majority of city dwellers. The new reproductive cycle model is a model of housing stress that excludes an increasing number of young professionals from the housing market in many European cities. Among the most vulnerable are families with young children and single-parent families. This inability to buy real estate for a wide population segment of young professionals promotes demand for rental housing. The strong demand for rental apartments is fueling rental price increases, causing the concept of housing stress to affect an ever-growing portion of the population. In addition to increasing prices, the supply side also has an impact. From a design and definition perspective, other physical attributes such as reduced living space, not in line with the needs and lifestyles of tenants, are important variables. The development of living in the so-called 'shoebox' was identified through this research. Research of multiple European and Swiss cities led to the understanding that this real estate product is replicated in numerous international markets.

8. Sustainability and Co-Living
This part of the study focuses on sustainability motivations of tenants, which was additionally tested to relate to actual transportation mode choices in accessing work and leisure activity places. There is a growing body of research on co-living spaces, which describe a desire to live a more sustainable lifestyle or that the spaces themselves provide enhanced sustainability. A sense of community, facilitated through co-living, is often considered an essential element for tenants who reflect on the manner in which they lead their lives, specifically as it pertains to human behavior in relation to the environment. However, mindful of the recent economic development of co-living from the side of businesses, this raises important questions related to the regular activities the inhabitants do. Depleting the importance of the financial aspect, are inhabitants sustainable in their daily activities and decisions? In that context, there is no research that we know of, at least at the level of the co-living population, which looks specifically at the inhabitants and their environmentally friendly behavior. Cities are entrenched in and increasingly based on co-living spaces, but the increasing difficulty of mitigating climate change has also led to a growing urgency to figure out collectively, ourselves as well as with the authorities, how to act from day to day, maybe every minute.

9. Co-Living vs. Traditional Housing
For young professionals with limited resources, traditional urban housing options are often unsatisfactory in a number of ways. The traditional rental market frequently tends to be either location-specific or inflexible towards shorter-term rentals. In addition, the results of soaring traditional rental prices in Europe are forcing young professionals to increase expenditure on housing at the expense of savings, consumption, and leisure. This is particularly concerning due to the notable increase in European youth who are undergoing serious financial hardship. The alternative of investing in purchasing residential property is often not achievable in the short term for young professionals, especially those with student debts. Especially desirable neighborhoods in major economic and tourist cities have become further unobtainable now that institutional investments in the global residential market are pushing prices up. This phenomenon has also been observed in the U.S., where fundamental changes have led to a chronic undersupply of housing. The co-living real estate typology is currently flourishing among the many proprietary brands that have launched all across Europe. In Italy, only these last two years have seen the launch of numerous brands with various projects, the majority of which are dedicated to students. This high demand might be a result of the lack of student accommodation, given that only a small percentage of the students attending university can make use of student halls of residence. However, a positive influence on this trend may also stem from a demographic and labor market evolution. A characteristic feature is the clustering within the same dimension and urban position of these real estate investments aimed both at career beginners as well as academic beginners (or international students), who choose the European capital cities of economy and culture due to their high level of universities.

10. Legal and Regulatory Challenges
Legal and Regulatory Challenges. Co-living may be a trendy new living trend, but it raises a number of legal and regulatory challenges. First, co-living may well be a new way of flexible living, but finding the right balance between providing tenants with as much freedom as they need and providing them with a sufficient number of legal protections may be a challenge for policymakers. Second, co-living spaces are usually organized as one of the already existing and well-defined legal forms of business organizations, such as limited liability companies or real estate investment funds. The government then has to establish whether these existing business forms are sufficiently flexible to accommodate the specificities of co-living. Relying on traditional business forms may be cumbersome for co-living companies. Co-living tends to mix elements traditionally belonging to the hospitality industry with elements traditionally belonging to the rental industry. Designing businesses that mix characteristics from either of the traditional sectors of the economy may face a number of legal challenges with respect to taxation, publication of yearly accounts, access to social rights, and the flexibility to grow and open new co-living projects, as traditional rental and hospitality businesses are subject to quite different and sector-specific forms of legal and regulatory scrutiny.

11. Case Studies of Successful Co-Living Models
One of the leading business center providers in Central Europe is also behind the concept of co-living. HubHub combines business centers with a friendly community and provides everything its members need for their growth and success. They place the main emphasis on meaningful work and deepening relationships on a physical level that cannot be replaced. HubHub connects enthusiasts, SMEs, start-ups, and others who are situated in one place and develop together. Co-living in HubHub is a business center that connects entrepreneurs, freelancers, and partners who work and also spend time off working together. They can rest in libraries and living zones, attend events, and develop. The residence is located among the branching tram network, just 5-6 minutes from Old Town Square and Wenceslas Square in the heart of Prague. It offers private rooms, each containing a small fridge and tea and coffee-making facilities, shared kitchens and laundry, a fitness area, and a café onsite. There are several historical monuments, cultural facilities, the bank of the Vltava River, several street markets, restaurants, clubs, and bars in the vicinity. A typical rent for a studio apartment is in the range of CZK 16,000 per month, excluding water and energy according to consumption. The deposit is CZK 1,000. A free meal is an interconnection point where guests can exchange experiences and find a base for their mental and physical care. The collaborative living area reflects a tranquil nature of openness and sharing gained by the residents. This becomes their comfort zone, proprietary to their own values. They share habits, personal belongings, and everyday life as well as temporary confidentiality. The caretaker role is an educative aspect; together they plan social catering and cooking seasons for preparation without receiving a meal plan.

12. Cultural Influences on Co-Living Preferences
Many young professionals may indeed place a high value on their private lives, avoiding biologically related living. Childless singles and couples often prefer a combination of openness and autonomy with a high degree of control over their context, choosing environments that are strongly oriented towards frequent interior as well as immediate exterior space intervention on an individual-by-individual basis. Not only does their behavior confirm hyper-individualist consumption preferences, but combined situations of wealth and elevated work time, as well as leisure time scarcity, certainly make choice indulgence a very strategic move. In a professional working environment, frequent social encounters with people who share members' successful lifestyles have a high service value, allowing clients, employees, and associates to partake in the full range of privileged lifestyle experiences. Cohabitation should thus be understood taking into account the historical, temporal, and contextual specificity of the phenomenon. While the large literature underlines the convergence of cohabitation and marriage, whereby a growing proportion of people of all ages live together as if married. The phenomenon touches European societies to different degrees, and the meanings attached to cohabitation are largely socially and culturally stratified. Even if common patterns of cohabitation are emerging, the modernization of family and dual-career couple models does not affect European countries in the same way. Co-living marketing strategies seem to aim at satisfying the urban preferences of some groups of young professionals rather than advocating family models. If a fraction of singles does put off certain traditional family choices, the intention is to maintain an individual lifestyle rather than optimizing available personal resources. The option is to mislead dramatic social demographic transitions, so that the social projections of today's singles might have been completely separated from family-oriented historical frames. Evidenced singles do not represent a more general phenomenon, or at least, we should claim that before the definition of common patterns, we must wait for more knowledgeable reflections on cohabitation in a multi-faceted and diversified society.

13. Technology and Co-Living Spaces
Co-living is a concept where residents share living space and a set of interests, values, and experiences. In Europe, aside from basic rental apartments, various public and private sector-supported property development projects enable the creation of this type of community. Institutional investors are now investing in these properties. They are the second most attractive alternative development at the global level, considering that the lack of affordable housing is a huge problem that needs to be solved. Continuous progression must accompany assessment and planning when information technologies and co-living research areas intersect. Although other firms have made significant progress in aggregating information technology expertise by connecting individuals, it is a complex and unexplored research area to institutionalize this process. Crowdsourcing models are built into every large technology firm's systems to meet needs and fuel progress. Ideating intelligent technology solutions in co-living communities that support the culture enables residents to find alternative solutions. As the ease of obtaining digital copies has made it accessible for everyone, these environments use art to lay out a friendly vibe and express what the inhabitants are doing. Co-living is much more about technology to champion a community and the culture. The social situations that trouble most inhabitants all fall under the ambit of the house's negligence. Social relationships are what productivity and personal happiness depend on. Even co-living spaces embrace these technological services; as the capital of the future, co-living is poised to become a resource. Communities are expanding very quickly, yet to be seen across the world. Clearly, the harmony within the automating interactions is where the balance is found. It is essential to decentralize content that introduces people to what is happening without downplaying it to the point where it is impersonal and new. The intersection of technology and the co-living movement is necessary for these communities not to fall apart. With it, the bonding and memories that make this decision worth it do not come. This could drastically lower the cost of development and serve as a method of providing energizing architectural interaction. The communities can truly shine, so let's get to it.

14. Future Trends in Co-Living
Today, students, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and digital nomads have made co-living popular. The question is whether, in the future, this new way of living could be extended to other sectors: single parents who would benefit from the community and the support of other parents in difficult situations; low-income individuals who could have easier access to amenities, occupation, training, and education; people who cannot afford housing but who do not have access to social housing; pensioners who would benefit from living with people who could support them socially and/or help them perform various tasks more easily; migrants who could find housing and help of all kinds to socialize in the new country; specific groups of people or those with a determined level of income who want to benefit from the high environmental quality of the collective space while contributing to the fight against climate change through a reduced ecological footprint of their housing. We are at the point where, in Europe, according to forecasts made in 2019, co-living in the future could very probably undergo a process of significant institutionalization, favoring the growth of the market at the expense of the single basic residential function. The transparency of the management, the reliability and certifications of service, and greater security and control in transitional forms of residential use will lead families, minors, workers, self-employed individuals, and scholarship holders to approach the medium to longer-term co-living rental market and counter the resistance found by more expensive, selective, and/or not wholly inclusive micro-apartment buildings in order to make themselves known to local authorities, citizens, young people, and investors.

15. The Role of Community in Co-Living
We started our co-living journey with a simple question in mind—“What kind of space do we want to live in with the people that we care about?” At the time, finding an answer to that question wasn’t so straightforward because our housing and living options felt very limited. Our options were to live in a family household or random co-living with strangers. There was nothing in between. That’s why we decided to start a co-living company that could build the ideal living space with the people we cared about. As we know, the co-living movement has seen tremendous growth across the world. While many see co-living as an evolution of housing space, we see it as the transformation toward community-oriented living space. This is crucial because for many, co-living is a major life decision. Logically, moving is a hassle, but who you are living with is a major concern for many of us, and so co-living platforms give people the opportunity to bond with others before the big move. In this sense, community has to be the core element of co-living—not the views, not the size, not even the price. All of these elements are so important because they are the elements that make up the community environment. Creating the ideal space, location, and support is one side of the coin. The other side is that we are co-living in spaces that have been shared with other lives. They have always been lived-in spaces. They are, by definition, cultural. Understanding someone else’s vision of a life is to understand admitted access to the inner sanctum of their being.

16. Marketing Strategies for Co-Living Spaces
The provision of a co-living experience includes boutique marketing strategies that go above and beyond the usual real estate advertising. Here is a short write-up on some of these strategies. User-Centric Experiences: Despite the fully loaded amenities and Instagrammable living spaces, the underlying driver of these living styles is the provision of experience for its users. A trend here is to hyper-localize the experience. This involves the creation of curated amenity spaces and services that mean something to the users. Food and Beverage: The co-living experience goes beyond the room that you will sleep in. Being an extension of user-centric experiences is the trend to provide curated food and beverage to its users within the common space farm-to-belly dining concept. One interesting concept is a food prep service that is being rolled out. For five days a week, you can order dinner and brunch delivered to your door from wings of the building dedicated to communal dining. It’s prepared by a team of chefs plucked from other upscale restaurants. Entrapment and Advocacy: The idea for these advertisements is to build community hype prior to development approval. The notion here is similar to crowd building and community entrapment used in real estate crowdfunding. Entrapment on a localized level is important with developments that may be unwelcome additions to the current mix.

17. Challenges Faced by Co-Living Operators
Co-living spaces are facing dissimilar challenges when the unit consists of individual rooms. Mainly, in individual room models, one of the greatest challenges faced by the co-living operator is to ensure around-the-clock quality of life and living standards for the customers. The increase in density per square meter can generate a lot of psychological stress, but the main challenge is the sharing culture itself. The co-living residents need to construct a relationship, not just connections. Both the operator and the real estate company can help to mitigate this situation. The use of space can change at each moment of the day; the organization and design of the co-living space can be a real challenge. The different types of users can also represent various needs and rhythms of life. The co-living residents need to pay rent, which can offer individual privacy when necessary, and there is comfort and good design of shared spaces to stimulate socialization. However, co-living spaces can lose potential living quality if the use of space cannot adapt to the fulfillment of the various activities of their residents. Furthermore, the operator and the real estate company can set how they want to minimize the use of space and demanded resources. However, it is also necessary to keep in mind that there could be costs associated with economic measures.

18. Comparative Analysis of European Cities
This chapter intends to establish the knowledge and understanding of different driving forces and the potential variation tied to the adaptation and implementation of a different shape to the co-living model in Europe and beyond. The result of the map of the currently opened and operated co-living spaces in Europe shows the position of central cities regarding the practice of transport-oriented development in action. The comparative mapping of co-living spaces in key European cities showcased each city model with its different characteristics and constraints. 18.1. Co-Living Typologies When analyzing the outcomes, one can observe geographic and urban form patterns along with size ranges and notoriety variation. London is the city that has already opened the highest number of buildings functioning as co-living spaces. It is followed by other European capitals such as Berlin and Amsterdam. Overall, the analysis of the 11 European cities mapping showcases some similarities but also the wide variation in spatial concentration and form. As commented before, the outcomes reveal the number of co-living spaces at a city level, identified in October 2018.

19. Psychological Benefits of Co-Living
There are also some psychological benefits associated with co-living spaces. The population share of young professionals who are living alone in more individualistic societies has been on the rise, which highlights the role of loneliness in determining housing preferences. Loneliness is a problem that has deepened over the years with economic development. It is often discussed with growing concern, not only because of the suffering it can cause but also because it is related to several public health issues. Loneliness has been found to lead to depression, stress, and suicide attempts. Small communities could mitigate the loneliness that stems from living alone. Forming neighborhoods that are more than just spaces for living, emphasizing the social aspect of neighborhoods, could decrease the rate of suicides while increasing the quality of life for city dwellers as well. Thus, co-living spaces have established a bond of community that is found to provide health and happiness to residents. A comfortable flat, small communities, such as neighborhoods or buildings, could serve as a counterweight to unhealthy impulses that often prevail in large cities. Residents would be happier in a community where everyone is familiar with one another. In essence, new forms of buildings and neighborhoods could lead to health and happiness. These small platforms could serve a multifunctional role, addressing the need for housing while at the same time addressing the phenomenon of loneliness among young professionals, thereby improving societal well-being.

20. Financing Co-Living Projects
What many people do not realize about these co-living accommodations is that they are very big operations, with 300 to 1,000 or even more residents living together. They are very serious business for their operators. Like all real estate developments, they face a substantial need for funds, which then defines the project’s capital structure, another expression of the fact that real estate development is first and foremost a financial endeavor. The specific way in which co-living spaces operate has important consequences for how they might best be financed. We suggest that pool crowdfunding is the ideal instrument to fund them, and we first offer a detailed analysis of what co-living is and present a case study to show that so-called co-living spaces are actually a halfway new kind of operation in real estate. Recognizing this special position has important consequences for their financing, and we conduct a high-level analysis to define criteria for co-living financing products. The emerging business models of co-living currently are in urgent need of long-term capital to finance the development and operation of such communities. Pool crowdfunding is ideally suited to attract such capital. Specifically, we design development projects of co-living spaces funded by credit and equity from a temporary pool of heterogeneous stakeholders that simultaneously function as users of a subsequent co-living micro-subsidiary, co-owner of that entity, and as a co-management team. Such institutional settings allow for offering attractive flat-sharing and governance-related benefits to crowd-in refinancing to a co-living micro-subsidiary, a platform business model that requires significant long-term capital inflows.

21. Co-Living and Work-Life Balance
It cannot be denied that people living close to their workplaces may derive a lot of benefits, such as the decrease in commuting time, the associated transportation costs, and associated stress, as well as an increase in free time for family, health, personal development, and other interlinks between work and private life. In order to satisfy the rising needs of society, co-living spaces are evolving over time and becoming an alternative housing concept not only for students and digital nomads but also for many people of different age profiles, such as entrepreneurs, sportsmen, and employees seeking work-life balance. This phenomenon is currently happening only in some big cities around the world, making it more difficult for people living outside these areas to feel accomplished. As such areas of co-living tend to increase, cities may become saturated with more traffic and pollution. The concentrated capital cost associated with public space, social facilities, and public transportation is increasing. Co-living could satisfy their unmet needs to a larger extent, with some trade-offs taken. This policy therefore comes up with some recommendations for local authorities to act as enablers or facilitators to ensure a successful co-living model in cities, contributing to better-planned and responsive urban land and housing use policies. Rebalancing or encouraging alternative housing typologies, such as co-living, may help to reduce the trend of building more concentrated housing types, such as apartments, and reduce urban sprawl and commuter patterns, as developments around the city become more mixed and diversified by blending market and affordable housing with employment centers, retail and services, education, and public facilities. A diversified city or neighborhood could lead to an improvement in the local economy, cultural diversity, and a better quality of life for everyone who resides in the neighborhood.

22. Community Engagement Activities
Many co-living spaces offer events and activities intended to engage and create connections between residents. Co-living operators often provide a regular program of free or paid community events and activities such as yoga classes, cooking tutorials, talks offering career and financial advice, wine tasting, live music nights, and educational workshops. In addition to communal meals and movie nights, some organizations offer guided meditations, yoga classes, and e-challenges where residents accomplish a series of tasks together in collaboration. Various co-living spaces provide a wide range of community-based workshops and events. Among other community-based activities, they include a guided freethinker club, drinks at the rooftop bar, tech breakfast with neighbors, cooking workshops, and live music and drinks. A volunteer at a co-living space mentions that the concept of community at his residence is driven by the program of regular events that residents can participate in. It is suggested that the quality of the community program should be assessed when judging the premium for quality co-living spaces – the better the quality of the community engagement, the higher the price people would be willing to pay.

23. Feedback from Residents
In order to compile the feedback from the residents of our coliving case study, qualitative research methods were adopted. The chosen methods allowed for an explorative and qualitative examination of the phenomena. Elements explored in focus groups included the most critical aspects of daily living in cohousing, the role of shared facilities in their housing situation, and what can be learned from living in coliving. From this exercise, we gathered feedback on the residents' most valued shared facilities, the personal advantages, and whether they would continue living here or not, and why. The focus groups served as an instrument to dive into the experiences and ideas of the coliving residents. Since this study is conducted anonymously, pseudonyms are used to enable a constructive conversation. The focus groups were conducted in the living rooms of the different campus locations. This way, the groups were held in a familiar environment and we could directly observe the shared facilities. Furthermore, over the years, the researchers had gotten to know most of the tenants during meetings, trips, and residencies. Sparked through informal conversations, the hypotheses for this research topic originated. Therefore, the residents felt comfortable sharing their thoughts and could be completely frank when confronted with possibly negative aspects of coliving. The friendly and informal character allowed ideas to emerge spontaneously and, at times, the atmosphere became open and brainstorming was encouraged. Due to the small number of focus group members, mainly in-depth and detailed conversations were generated. This approach was utilized to gain an understanding of the concerns and issues that tenants face once they are indeed in full occupancy in a real coliving building.

24. Co-Living Spaces and Mental Health
Life within the city can be very lonely, and it is often overlooked as a contributor to mental health concerns. Relational experiences shape us in the neighborhoods and buildings where we spend our lives, impacted by our social life outside of our homes. It becomes the role of new developments and embedded services, along with conscious residential neighbors, to nudge one another into relationships that help alleviate the feelings of loneliness and disconnection among neighbors. The way that loneliness changes our ability to connect to others or the ways our building and neighborhood designs make it more or less likely to run into people we know is significant. When designing new architecture, cities should focus on embedding features that not only promote formal socialization but also trigger informal connections; it should aim for connection-building spaces over luxurious facilities. This ties in well with the goals of co-living, as it often inherently includes these designed features. While the business model acts as a way for investors to capitalize on the trend among young professionals to rent and share housing, the actual development of these buildings could be a small positive contribution to the fight against loneliness. The challenge, therefore, becomes how big of a difference better architecture, design, generating a sense of community, and delivering better service really make in our everyday encounters with our neighbors, as well as our broader social life. It is important to reconcile the private interests of new development owners with the public interests of creating desirable spaces. The role of the public sector increases as densification takes place. If less space and privacy in our homes are compensated by great shared spaces and a network of supportive and interesting social encounters, the shift from the traditional nuclear family model and hyper-individualized lifestyles could be more than cost-saving.

25. International Perspectives on Co-Living
Co-living is also referred to as intentional community, combi-living, or shared living. Yet all these concepts are synonymous and are framed within the same idea. This evolving tenure form is a specific type of housing aimed at, on the one hand, increasing the community life of sometimes largely unconnected inhabitants and, on the other hand, offering a low-budget housing solution. Co-living is not exclusively a panacea for millennial problems but a form of tenure suitable for everyone, whatever their age or origin. The availability of around-the-clock services as well as new technologies is considered a crucial factor stimulating a transition to co-living for large parts of the population, as high technological skills are no longer a condition to use the internet – and therefore non-rivalry at non-monetary costs and positive network externalities generated by the use of the internet apply. Co-living is a new form of living that is gaining ground among especially young professionals in Europe, mainly in the United Kingdom and in Germany. Although this type of special intensive housing or institutional living is for a very small target group, investors and governments are particularly interested in stimulating the co-living market and developing large-scale co-living projects. The increasing share of co-living housing projects signifies a growing private as well as public interest in in-house communities, quality of housing, and the strategic management of social cohesion, integration, and active and healthy living as well. We argue that the rise of co-living contributes to the collective life of European cities and questions the institutional opportunities and limitations of privatized co-living spaces.

26. Conclusion
The search for a feeling of belonging connected to a community is a moral issue. From the sociological perspective, co-living can be interpreted as a variant of neo-tribalization processes. within the framework of individualization of living through the emergence of lifestyles and values that are separate from that regional biotope, but even the cosmopolitan middle-class members of these selections expect a community of like-minded people, social recognition and an environment that appeals to their finer sensibilities. Home, too, is business-critical to society and construction, and it attracts significantly more attention today than it did a decade or two ago. But the understanding of home as a dwelling that has now been freed from many previous obligations and functions has not yet been recognized by sector-oriented studies and professional interest groups. In conclusion, in order to face these socio-economic conditions, it is also necessary to have a very necessary mass of users ready to experience in their own living experience the state of research and the data coming from surveys and statistics, from which it will be possible to verify the user satisfaction, to define new characteristics and needs and to extrapolate possible business models that until now were not predicted or foreseen. The functions and services embedded in the co-housing or co-living model, such as security provided by the community of elderly, work, neighborly, environment, home care, food, business opportunities, health prevention, etc., require IT and technology to stimulate new entrepreneurship and also attract the attention of the new family policies that the country needs due to the increased size of the singles and elderly segments.